Q5004
=====

Question
--------

I've recently noticed that emails I send with a *Bcc:* line are being
delivered to their final destination with the *Bcc:* line still present.

Answer
------

Exim removes *Bcc:* lines only if you call it with the **-t** option
(i.e. when it is acting partly as an MUA). It does not remove *Bcc:*
lines that are present in incoming SMTP mail or command-line mail that
does not use **-t**. Indeed, it should not remove them, because only the
initiating software (i.e. the MUA) can tell what to do with *Bcc:*
lines; any MTA software has to leave them alone. This is what RFC 2822
has to say about *Bcc:* *The* Bcc: \*field (where the _Bcc_ means _Blind Carbon Copy_ ) contains addresses of recipients of the message whose addresses are
not to be revealed to other recipients of the message. 

There are three
ways in which the *Bcc:* field is used. In the first case, when a
message containing a Bcc: field is prepared to be sent, the Bcc:
line is removed even though all of the recipients (including those
specified in the Bcc: field) are sent a copy of the message. 

In the
second case, recipients specified in the To: and Cc: lines each are
sent a copy of the message with the Bcc: line removed as above, but
the recipients on the* Bcc: line get a separate copy of the message
containing a Bcc: line. (When there are multiple recipient addresses
in the Bcc: field, some implementations actually send a separate copy
of the message to each recipient with a Bcc: containing only the
address of that particular recipient.)

Finally, since a Bcc: field may
contain no addresses, a Bcc: field can be sent without any addresses
indicating to the recipients that blind copies were sent to someone.
Which method to use with* Bcc: fields is implementation dependent, but
refer to the **Security Considerations**
section of this document for a discussion of each.

* * * * *
