Q5023
=====

Question
--------

Why does Exim do *ident* callbacks by default? Isn't this just a waste
of resources? I've been told this is an ancient way of authentication.
Is it obsolete?

Answer
------

This is a common misunderstanding, at least partially resulting from the
incorrect naming of the protocol when it was first published. The
service on port 113 is an identification service, which allows a target
host to record information identifying the user responsible for making a
connection to it. The information may not be intelligible to the
recording host - it could, for example, be encrypted so that only
someone on the calling host can make sense of it. It is useful for
providing additional information in an audit trail. At least one site
has found *ident* effective against two rather prevalent kinds of open
proxy (whether already blacklisted at the RBLs or not). An ACL statement
is used to reject mail from servers that return *ident* strings of
`squid` and `CacheFlow Server`. Snippets such as this in the RCPT ACL do
the trick:

    deny  condition = ${if eq{$sender_ident}{CacheFlow Server}{1}{0}}
      message = Rejected - appears to be an unsecured proxy: $sender_ident

The likelihood that a genuine mail process would return those specific
ident strings is vanishingly small. The *ident* data should not be used
for authentication in any form except on a closed secure network between
cooperating hosts (probably not even then). The information from the
source host is only as reliable as the host itself. If it's not under
your control then you have to treat the information as opaque data that
can be used only by the sysadmin of the source system to trace back
connection data. Some *ident* implementations send out opaque cookies or
DES encrypted information. *Ident* is hugely useful at times -
especially for checking back on connections from multiuser machines (as
opposed to one-person desktop boxes). You can stop Exim making ident
calls by adding

    rfc1413_query_timeout = 0s

to its configuration, but it is better to leave it active (reducing the
timeout to 10s or less if it is causing problems) - it costs very
little, and in cases of mail forgery from a multiuser system can track
the sinner concerned very quickly.

* * * * *
