Q1502
=====

Question
--------

How can I get Exim to handle bang path addresses?

Answer
------

In general, you can't (Exim is an Internet mailer and recognizes only
RFC 2822 domain-style addresses) but some restricted kinds of bang path
can be dealt with by appropriate rewriting - but please note the warning
below. Exim treats a bang path address as an unqualified local part, and
so will qualify it with your domain. A rule such as

    \N^([^!]+)!(.+)@your\.domain$\N   $2@$1

turns *a\!b@your.domain into *b@a*. You can also use a repeating rule to turn multi-component paths into the percent hack notation with a rule such as

    \N^([^!]+)!([^@%]+)(.+)$\N   $2%$1$3   R

which turns *a!b@c* into *b%a@c* and *a!b!c@d* first into *b!c%a@d* and
then, because of the R flag, into *c%b%a@d*. The R flag causes
repetition up to 10 times. **Warning:** If you install a general
rewriting rule like the above, you are opening yourself up to the
possibility of unwanted relaying. A host that is not permitted to relay
through your system could send a message with an SMTP command line such
as

    RCPT TO:<victim-host!victim-user@your.domain>

and this would be accepted because it is addressed to your domain.
However, the rewriting then converts the address, and the message does
in fact get relayed. One way round this, if all your bang path messages
are passed to Exim via SMTP, is to use the `S` rewriting flag. This
applies a rewriting rule to incoming SMTP addresses as soon as they are
received, before checking for qualification, relaying, etc. So a rule
such as

    \N^([^!]+)!(.+)$\N  $2@$1  S

rewrites simple two-component bang paths before the result is checked
for relaying. However, this does not rewrite addresses in the headers of
the message.

* * * * *
