FAQ\_ / [Performance](FAQ/Performance) / Q1002

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q1002
=====

Question
--------

How well does Exim scale?

Answer
------

Although the author did not specifically set out to write a high-
performance MTA, Exim does seem to be fairly efficient. The biggest
server at the University of Cambridge (a large Sun box) goes over
100,000 deliveries per day on busy days (it has over 20,000 users).
There was a report of a mailing list exploder that sometimes handles
over 100,000 deliveries a day on a big Linux box, the record being
177,000 deliveries (791MB in total). Up to 13,000 deliveries an hour
have been reported. These are quotes from some Exim users: "... Canada's
largest internet provider, uses Exim on all of our mail machines, and
we're absolutely delighted with it. It brought life back into one of our
machines plagued with backlogs and high load averages. Here's just an
example of how much email our largest mail server (quad SS1000) is
seeing ... " [230,911 deliveries in a day: 4,475MB] "... Exim has to ...
do gethostbyname()s and RBL lookups on all of the incoming mail servers,
and he runs from inetd (TCP Wrappers connected). All the same, it seems
to me that he runs as fast as lightning on our SCO 5.0.4 box (1 Pentium
166) - far faster than MMDF which I (and many customers) had before."
"On a PII 400 with 128M of RAM running Linux 2.2.5, I have achieved
36656 messages per hour (outgoing unique messages and recipients). For
about a 5 minute period, I was able to achieve an average of 30 messages
per second (that would be 108000 m/hour)! We are using: (options that
make a difference):

    queue_only
    split_spool_directory
    queue_run_max = 1
    remote_max_parallel = 1

We have a cron job hat runs every five minutes that spawns 5 `exim -q`
if there are less that 120 exim processes currently running. We found
that by manually controlling the concurrency of `exim -q` processes
contending for the spool for **remote\_smtp** delivery that we gained
considerable performance - 10000 m/hour."

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Performance](FAQ/Performance) / Q1002

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
