FAQ\_ / [Rewriting addresses](FAQ/Rewriting_addresses) / Q0803

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0803
=====

Question
--------

I want to rewrite local addresses in mail that goes to the outside
world, but not for messages that remain within the local intranet.

Answer
------

You can use the `headers_rewrite` option on a transport to do this. The
rewriting will then apply to just those copies of a message that pass
through the transport. The `return_path` option can similarly be used to
rewrite the sender address. There is no way of rewriting recipient
addresses at transport time. However, as these are by definition remote
addresses, you probably don't want to rewrite them. You have to set up
the configuration so that it uses different SMTP transports for internal
and external mail. If you are using a single router in both cases, you
could configure it like this:

    dnslookup:
      driver = dnslookup
      transport = ${if match{$domain}{\N\.my\.domain$\N}{int_smtp}{ext_smtp}}

This example uses the **int\_smtp** transport for domains ending in
*.my.domain*, and **ext\_smtp** for everything else. The **ext\_smtp**
transport could be something like this:

    ext_smtp:
      driver = smtp
      headers_rewrite = *@*.my.domain \
           ${lookup{$1}cdb{/etc/$2/mail.handles.cdb}{$value}fail}
      return_path = \
        ${if match{$return_path}{\N^([^@]+)@(.*)\.my\.domain$\N}\
         {\
         ${lookup{$1}cdb{/etc/$2/mail.handles.cdb}{$value}fail}\
         }\
         fail}

This example uses a separate file of local-to-external address
translations for each domain. This is not the only possibility, of
course. The `headers_rewrite` and `return_path` options apply the same
rewriting to the header lines and the envelope sender address,
respectively.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Rewriting addresses](FAQ/Rewriting_addresses) / Q0803

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
