FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0002

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0002
=====

Question
--------

Exim is not working. What is wrong? How can I check what it is doing?

Answer
------

Exactly how is it not working? Check the more specific questions in the
other sections of this FAQ. Some general techniques for debugging are:

1.  Look for information in Exim's log files. These are in the *log*
    directory in Exim's spool directory, unless you have configured a
    different path for them. Serious operational problems are reported
    in paniclog.

2.  If the problem involves the delivery of one or more messages, try
    forcing a delivery with the **-M** option and also set the **-d**
    option, to cause Exim to output debugging information. For example:

        exim -d -M 0z6CXU-0005RR-00

    The output is written to the standard error stream. You need to have
    admin privileges to use **-M** and **-d**.

3.  If the problem involves incoming SMTP mail, try using the **-bh**
    option to simulate an incoming connection from a specific host, for
    example:

        exim -bh 10.9.8.7

    This goes through the motions of an SMTP session, without actually
    accepting a message. Information about various policy checks is
    output. You will need to know how to pretend to be an SMTP client.
    -   Try "-bhc" instead of just "-bh" if you use callouts.

4.  If the problem involves lack of recognition or incorrect handling of
    local addresses, try using the **-bt** option with debugging turned
    on, to see how Exim is handling the address. For example,

        exim -d -bt z6abc

    shows you how it would handle the local part `z6abc`.

5.  If the above looked promising but didn't output enough debugging
    information, try "-d+all" instead of just "-d". See the exim man
    page for help on this.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0002

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
