FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0017

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0017
=====

Question
--------

Whenever Exim tries to deliver a specific message to a particular
server, it fails, giving the error *Remote end closed connection after
data* or *Broken pipe* or a timeout. What's going on?

Answer
------

*Broken pipe* is the error you get on some OS when the remote host just
drops the connection. The alternative is *connection reset by peer*.
There are many potential causes. Here are some of them (see also
\`../Q0068\`\_):

1.  There are some firewalls that fall over on binary zero characters
    mail. Have a look, e.g. with `hexdump -c mymail | tail` to see if
    mail contains any binary zero characters.

2.  There are broken SMTP servers around that just drop the connection r
    the data has been sent if they don't like the message for some on
    (e.g. it is too big) instead of sending a 5xx error code. Have tried
    sending a small message to the same address?

It has been reported that some releases of Novell servers running NIMS
are unable to handle lines longer than 1024 characters, and just close
the connection. This is an example of this behaviour.

1.  If the problem occurs right at the start of the mail, then it could
    network problem with mishandling of large packets. Many emails are l
    and thus appear to propagate correctly, but big emails will rate big
    IP datagrams.

There have been problems when something in the middle of the network
mishandles large packets due to IP tunnelling. In a tunnelled link, your
IP datagrams gets wrapped in a larger datagram and sent over a network.
This is how virtual private networks (VPNs), and some ISP transit
circuits work. Since the datagrams going over the tunnel require a
larger packet size, the tunnel needs a bigger maximum transfer unit
(MTU) in the network handling the tunnelled packets. However, MTUs are
often fixed, so the tunnel will try to fragment the packets. If the
systems outside the tunnel are using path MTU discovery, (most Sun Sparc
Solaris machines do by default), and set the DF (don't fragment) bit
because they don't send packets larger than their *local* MTU, then ICMP
control messages will be sent by the routers at the ends of the tunnel
to tell them to reduce their MTU, since the tunnel can't fragment the
data, and has to throw it away. If this mechanism stops working, e.g. a
firewall blocks ICMP, then your host never knows it has hit the maximum
path MTU, but it has received no ACK on the packet either, so it
continues to resend the same packet and the connection stalls,
eventually timing out. You can test the link using pings of large
packets and see what works:

    ping -s host 2048

Try reducing the MTU on the sending host:

    ifconfig le0 mtu 1300

Alternatively, you can reduce the size of the buffer Exim uses for SMTP
output by putting something like

    DELIVER_OUT_BUFFER_SIZE=512

in your *Local/Makefile* and rebuilding Exim (the default is 8192).
While this should not in principle have any effect on the size of
packets sent, in practice it does seem to have an effect on some OS. You
can also try disabling path MTU discovery on the sending host. On Linux,
try:

    echo 1 >/proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_no_pmtu_disc

For a general discussion and information about other operating systems,
see
[http://www.netheaven.com/pmtu.html](http://www.netheaven.com/pmtu.html).
If disabling path MTU discovery fixes the problem, try to find the
broken or misconfigured router/firewall that swallows the
ICMP-unreachable packets. Increasing timeouts on the receiving host will
not work around the problem.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0017

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
