FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0018

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0018
=====

Question
--------

Why do messages not get delivered down the same connection when I do
something like: `exim -v -R @aol.com`? For other domains, I do this and
I see the appropriate *waiting for passed connections to get used*
messages.

Answer
------

Recall that Exim does not keep separate queues for each domain, but
operates in a distributed fashion. Messages get into its \`waiting for
host x' hints database only when a delivery has been tried, and has had
a temporary error. Here are some possibilities:

1.  The messages to *aol.com* got put in your queue, but no previous
    very attempt occured before you did the **-R**. This might have been
    use of your settings of `queue_only_load`, `smtp_accept_queue`, or
    any r option that caused no immediate delivery attempt on arrival.
    If is the case, you can try using **-qqR** instead of **-R**.

2.  You have set `connection_max_messages` on the smtp transport, and
    limit was reached. This would show as a sequence of messages one
    connection, then another sequence down a new connection, etc.

3.  Exim tried to pass on the SMTP connection to another message, but
    message was in the process of being delivered to *aol.com* by some r
    process (typically, a normal queue runner). This will break the
    ence, though the other delivery should pass its connection on to r
    messages if there are any.

4.  The folk at *aol.com* changed the MX records so the host names have
    ged - or a new host has been added. I don't know how likely this is.

5.  Exim is not performing as it should in this regard, for some reason.
    time you have mail queued up for *aol.com*, try running

<!-- -->

    exim_dumpdb /var/spool/exim wait-remote_smtp

to see if those messages are listed among those waiting for the relevant
*aol.com* hosts.

[In the specific case of AOL, there is another possibility - AOL by
default reject SMTP that appears to come from a server hosted on a
domestic ADSL line. If this affects you, the two options are either to
get your ISP to set up an RDNS record for you (assuming you have static
IP), or to route messages to AOL via your ISP's smarthost instead of
directly.]

* * * * *

> |/!/| **Edit conflict - other version:**

* * * * *

1.  In the specific case of AOL, there is another possibility - AOL by
    default reject SMTP that appears to come from a server hosted on a
    domestic ADSL line. If this affects you, the two options are either
    to get your ISP to set up an RDNS record for you (assuming you have
    static IP), or to route messages to AOL via your ISP's smarthost
    instead of directly.

* * * * *

> |/!/| **Edit conflict - your version:**

* * * * *

* * * * *

> |/!/| **End of edit conflict**

* * * * *

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0018

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
