Q0020
=====

Question
--------

Why do connections to my machine's SMTP port take a long time to respond
with the banner, when connections to other ports respond instantly? The
delay is sometimes as long as 30 seconds.

Answer
------

These kinds of delay are usually caused by some kind of network problem
that affects outgoing calls made by Exim at the start of an incoming
connection. Configuration options that cause outgoing calls are:

1.  `rfc1413_hosts` and `rfc1413_query_timeout` (for *ident* calls).
    Firewalls sometimes block ident connections so that they time out,
    instead of refusing them immediately. This can cause this problem.
    See \`FAQ/Miscellaneous/Q5023\`\_ for a discussion of the usefulness
    of *ident*.

2.  The `host_lookup` option, the `host_reject_connection` option, or a
    condition in the ACL that runs at connection time requires the
    remote host's name to be looked up from its IP address. Sometimes
    these DNS lookups time out. You can get this effect with ACL
    statements like this:

<!-- -->

    deny  hosts = *.x.example

If at all possible, you should use IP addresses instead of host names in
blocking lists in order to to avoid this problem. You can use the
**-bh** option to get more information about what is happening at the
start of a connection. However, note that the **-bh** option does not
provide a complete simulation. In particular, no *ident* checks are
done, so it won't show up a delay problem that is related to (1) above.

* * * * *
