FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0029

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0029
=====

Question
--------

I can't seem to figure out why PAM support doesn't work correctly.

Answer
------

There is a problem using PAM with shadow passwords when the calling
program is not running as *root*. Exim is normally running as the Exim
user when authenticating a remote host.

1.  One solution can be found at
    [http://www.e-admin.de/pam\_exim/](http://www.e-admin.de/pam_exim/).

2.  PAM 0.72 allows authorization as non-*root*, using setuid helper
    programs. Furthermore, in */etc/pam.d/exim* you can explicitly
    specify that this authorization (using setuid helpers) is only
    permitted for certain users and groups.

3.  Another approach is to authenticate using the *saslauthd* daemon,
    which has its own interface to PAM. The daemon runs as root, so
    there is no access problem.

4.  One suggested solution was to set

<!-- -->

    exim_group=shadow

in the configuration file, or the equivalent at build time. This is very
strongly discouraged. Do not do it! It works, but it's a potential
security exposure. Exim is intended to run as a non-privileged user for
much of the time. This setting gives it have privileged access to
crucial security information all of the time, simply for the purposes of
authentication (which Exim will only spend a tiny part of its total time
doing). The result is that a successful compromise of the Exim system
can give someone direct access to the system passwords.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0029

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
