FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0036

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0036
=====

Question
--------

Why do I get the error *Permission denied: creating lock file hitching
post* when Exim tries to do a local delivery?

Answer
------

Your configuration specifies that local mailboxes are all held in single
directory, via configuration lines like these (taken from the default
configuration):

    local_delivery:
      driver = appendfile
      file = /var/mail/$local_part

and the permissions on the directory probably look like this:

    drwxrwxr-x   3 root     mail         512 Jul  9 13:48 /var/mail/

Using the default configuration, Exim runs as the local user when doing
a local delivery, and it uses a lock file to prevent any other process
from updating the mailbox while it is writing to it. With those
permissions the delivery process, running as the user, is unable to
create a lock file in the `/var/mail` directory. There are two solutions
to this problem:

1.  Set the `write` and `sticky bit` permissions on the directory, so
    that it looks like this:

<!-- -->

    drwxrwxrwt   3 root     mail         512 Jul  9 13:48 /var/mail/

The `w` allows any user to create new files in the directory, but the
`t` bit means that only the creator of a file is able to remove it. This
is the same setting as is normally used with the */tmp* directory.

2.  Arrange to run the local\_delivery transport under a specific group
    by changing the configuration to read

<!-- -->

    local_delivery:
      driver = appendfile
      file = /var/mail/${local_part}
      group = mail

The delivery process still runs under the user's uid, but with the group
set to `mail`. The group permission on the directory allows the process
to create and remove the lock file. The choice between (1) and (2) is up
to the administrator. If the second solution is used, users can empty
their mailboxes by updating them, but cannot delete them. If your
problem involves mail to *root*, see also \`FAQ/Filtering/Q0507\`\_.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0036

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
