FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0066

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0066
=====

Question
--------

What does the message *unable to set gid=xxx or uid=xxx* mean?

Answer
------

This message is given when an Exim process is unable to change uid or
gid when it needs to, because it does not have root privilege. This is a
serious problem that prevents Exim from carrying on with what it is
doing. The two most common situations where Exim needs to change uid/gid
are doing local deliveries and processing users' filter files. There are
two common causes of this error:

1.  You have forgotten to make the exim binary setuid to *root*. This
    means that it can never change uid/gid in any situation. Also, the
    setuid binary must reside on a disk partition that does not have the
    `nosuid` mount option set.

2.  The exim binary is setuid, but you have configured Exim so that,
    while trying to verify an address at SMTP time, it runs a router
    that needs to change uid/gid. Because Exim runs as *exim* and not
    *root* while receiving messages, the router is unable to change uid
    and therefore it cannot operate. The usual example of this is a
    **redirect** router for users' filter files.

Setting the `user` or `check_local_user` options on a `redirect` router causes this to happen (except in the special case when the redirection list is provided by the `data` option and does not contain `:include:`). The solution is to set `no_verify` on the router that is causing the problem. This means that it is skipped when an address is being verified. In .. raw:: html
:   &\#147;

normal.. raw:: html
:   &\#148;

> configurations where the router is indeed handling users' filter
> files, this is quite acceptable, because you do not usually need to
> process a filter file in order to verify that the local part is valid.
> See, for example, the **userforward** router in the default
> configuration.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0066

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
