FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0065

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0065
=====

Question
--------

When (as *root*) I use -C to run Exim with an alternate configuration
file, it gives an error about being unable to create a spool file when
trying to run an **autoreply** transport. Why is this?

Answer
------

When Exim is called with -C, it passes on -C to any instances of itself
that it calls (so that the whole sequence uses the same config file). If
it's running as *exim* when it does this, all is well. However, if it
happens as a consequence of a non-privileged user running **autoreply**,
the called Exim gives up its root privilege. Then it can't write to the
spool. This means that you can't use -C (even as *root*) to run an
instance of Exim that is going to try to run **autoreply** from a
process that is neither *root* nor *exim*. Because of the architecture
of Exim (using re-execs to regain privilege), there isn't any way round
this restriction. Therefore, the only way you can make this scenario
work is to run the **autoreply** transport as *exim* (that is, the user
that owns the Exim spool files). This may be satisfactory for
autoreplies that are essentially system-generated, but of course is no
good for autoreplies from unprivileged users, where you want the
**autoreply** transport to be run as the user. To get that to work with
an alternate configuration, you'll have to use two Exim binaries, with
different configuration file names in each. See S001 for a script that
patches the configuration name in an Exim binary.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [General Debugging](FAQ/General_Debugging) / Q0065

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
