Q0301
=====

Question
--------

What do *lowest numbered MX record points to local host* and *remote
host address is the local host* mean?

Answer
------

They mean exactly what they say. Exim expected to route an address to a
remote host, but the IP address it obtained from a router was for the
local host. If you really do want to send over TCP/IP to the local host
(to a different version of Exim or another MTA, for example), see
\`FAQ/Routing\_in\_general/Q0206\`\_). More commonly, these errors arise
when Exim thinks it is routing some foreign domain. For example, the
router configuration causes Exim to look up the domain in the DNS, but
when Exim examines the DNS output, either the lowest numbered MX record
points at the local host, or there are no MX records, and the address
record for the domain contains an IP address that belongs to the local
host. There has been a rash of instances of domains being deliberately
set up with MX records pointing to `localhost` (or other names with A
records that specify 127.0.0.1), which causes this behaviour. You can
use the `ignore_target_hosts` option to get Exim to ignore these
records. The default contiguration does this. For more discussion, see
\`../Q0319\`\_. For other cases:

1.  If the domain is meant to be handled as a local domain, there is a
    problem with the configuration, because it should not then have been
    looked up in the DNS. Check the `domains` settings on your routers.

2.  If the domain is one for which the local host is providing a relaying service (called .. raw:: html
    :   &\#147;

    mail hubbing.. raw:: html
    :   &\#148;

    ), possibly as part of a firewall, you need to set up a router to
    tell Exim where to send messages addressed to this domain, because
    the DNS directs them to the local host. You should put a router like
    this one before the one that does DNS lookups:

<!-- -->

    hubbed_hosts:
      driver = manualroute
      transport = remote_smtp
      route_list = see discussion below

The contents of the `route_list` option depend on how many hosts you are
hubbing for, and how their names are related to the domain name. Suppose
the local host is a firewall, and all the domains in \**.foo.bar* have
MX records pointing to it, and each domain corresponds to a host of the
same name. Then the setting could be

    route_list = *.foo.bar $domain

If there isn't a convenient relationship between the domain names and
the host names, you either have to list each domain separately, or use a
lookup expansion to look up the host from the domain, or put the routing
information in a file and use the `route_data` option with a lookup
expansion.

1.  If neither (1) nor (2) is the case, the lowest numbered MX record or
    the address record for the domain should not be pointing to your
    host. You should arrange to get the DNS mended.

* * * * *
