FAQ\_ / [Routing to remote hosts](FAQ/Routing_to_remote_hosts) / Q0318

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0318
=====

Question
--------

Exim won't route to a host with no MX record.

Answer
------

More than one thing may cause this.

1.  Are you sure there really is no MX record? Sometimes a typo results
    malformed MX record in the zone file, in which case some name ers
    give a SERVFAIL error rather than NXDOMAIN. Exim has to treat as a
    temporary error, so it can't go on to look for address records. can
    check for this state using one of the DNS interrogation commands, as
    *nslookup*, *host*, or *dig*.

2.  Is there a wildcard MX record for *your* domain? Is the
    `search_parents` option on in your **dnslookup** router? If the
    answer to these questions is "yes", that is the cause of the
    problem. When DNS resolver fails to find the MX record, it tries
    adding on your in if `search_parents` is true, and thereby finds
    your wildcard MX rd. For example:

3.  There is a wildcard MX record for \**.a.b.c*.

4.  There is a host called *x.y.z* that has an A record and no MX
    record.

5.  Somebody on the host *m.a.b.c* domain tries to mail to
    [[user@x.y.z](mailto:user@x.y.z)](mailto:user@x.y.z).

6.  Exim calls the DNS to look for an MX record for *x.y.z*.

7.  The DNS doesn't find any MX record. Because `search_parents` is
    true, it then tries searching the current host's parent domain, so
    it looks for *x.y.z.a.b.c* and picks up the wildcard MX record.

Setting `search_parents` false makes this case work while retaining the
wildcard MX record. However, anybody on the host *m.a.b.c* who mails to
[[user@n.a](mailto:user@n.a)](mailto:user@n.a) (expecting it to go to
[[user@n.a.b.c](mailto:user@n.a.b.c)](mailto:user@n.a.b.c)) now has a
problem. The `widen_domains` option of the **dnslookup** router may be
helpful in this circumstance.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Routing to remote hosts](FAQ/Routing_to_remote_hosts) / Q0318

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
