FAQ\_ / \`Routing for local delivery\`\_ / Q0405

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0405
=====

Question
--------

On a host that accepts mail for several domains, do I have to use fully
qualified addresses in */etc/aliases* or do I have to set up an alias
file for each domain?

Answer
------

You can do it either way. The default aliasing router contains this
line:

    data = ${lookup{$local_part}lsearch{/etc/aliases}}

which is what does the actual lookup. To make it look up the complete
address instead of just the local part, use

    data = ${lookup{$local_part@$domain}lsearch{/etc/aliases}}

If you want to use a separate file for each domain, use

    data = ${lookup{$local_part}lsearch{/etc/aliases/$domain}}

### A convenient cut-and-paste solution

    domain_aliases:
      debug_print           = "domain_aliases for $local_part@$domain"
      driver                = redirect
      allow_defer           = yes
      allow_fail            = yes
      data                  = ${lookup{$local_part}lsearch*{${lookup{$domain}partial-lsearch{DOMAINDIR/map}\
                                       {DOMAINDIR/$value}} }}
      domains               = partial-lsearch;DOMAINDIR/map
      retry_use_local_part  = yes

This router has a directory DOMAINDIR (you can use that as a macro or
replace the three occurrences of the macro in the router). DOMAINDIR/map
maps a domain to a file name (domain: filename), while
DOMAINDIR/filename is the actual alias file. That way, you can map
multiple domains to the same alias file.

    DOMAINDIR/map
    example.com: example1
    example.org: example2
    example.net: example2
    example.biz: example3

    DOMAINDIR/example1
    user1: bill

    DOMAINDIR/example2
    user2: alison

    DOMAINDIR/example3
    *: bill

that way, \`[user1@example.com](mailto:user1@example.com)\`\_ gets
delivered to bill, while
\`[user2@example.org](mailto:user2@example.org)\`\_ and
\`[user2@example.net](mailto:user2@example.net)\`\_ both get delivered
to alison, with all other combinations being handed down to the next
router.

In the last example any messages sent to example.biz (like
\`[santa.claus@example.biz](mailto:santa.claus@example.biz)\`\_) will be
delivered to bill. **Note:** *This catches ALL messages sent to
example.biz. It might and probably will also increase the amount of
incoming spam*

\*\*-------------------------

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

-------------------------\*\*

> FAQ\_ **/** \`Routing for local delivery\`\_ \*\*/ Q0405

-------------------------\*\*

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
