Q0413

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0413
=====

Question
--------

When a user's *.forward* file is syntactially invalid, Exim defers
delivery of all messages to that user, which sometimes include the
user's own test messages. Can it be told to ignore the *.forward* file
and/or inform the user of the error?

Answer
------

Setting `skip_syntax_errors` on the redirect router causes syntax errors
to be skipped. When dealing with users' *.forward* files it is best to
combine this with a setting of `syntax_errors_to` in order to send a
message about the error to the user. However, to avoid an infinite
cascade of messages, you have to be able to send to an address that
bypasses *.forward* file processing. This can be done by including a
router like this one

    real_localuser:
      driver = accept
      check_local_user
      transport = local_delivery
      local_part_prefix = real-

before the **redirect** router that handles *.forward* files. This will
do an ordinary local delivery without *.forward* processing, if the
local part is prefixed by `real-`. You can then set something like the
following options on the **redirect** router:

    skip_syntax_errors
    syntax_errors_to = real-$local_part@$domain
    syntax_errors_text = "\
      This is an automatically generated message. An error has been \
      found\nin your .forward file. Details of the error are reported \
      below. While\nthis error persists, messages addressed to you will \
      get delivered into\nyour normal mailbox and you will receive a \
      copy of this message for\neach one."

A final tidying setting to go with this is a rewriting rule that changes
`real-username` into just `username` in the headers of the message:

    \N^real-([^@]+)@your\.dom\.ain$\N    $1@your.dom.ain   h

This means that users won't ever see the `real-` prefix, unless they
look at the *Envelope-To:* header.

* * * * *
