FAQ\_ / [Routing for local delivery](FAQ/Routing_for_local_delivery) /
Q0423

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0423
=====

Question
--------

Some of our users have no home directories; the field in the password
file contains */no/home/dir*. This causes the error *failed to stat
/no/home/dir (No such file or directory)* when Exim tries to look for a
*.forward file*, and the delivery is deferred.

Answer
------

There are two issues involved here:

1.  With the default configuration, you are asking Exim to check for a
    orward)
    `file in the user's home directory. If no file is found,  tries to ''stat()'' the home directory. This is so that it will ce a missing NFS home directory, and not treat it as if the orward)`
    file did not exist. This *stat()* is failing when the directory
    really doesn't exist. You should arrange for the erforward%router
    not to run for these special users, by adding line:

<!-- -->

    condition = ${if eq {$home}{/no/home/dir}{no}{yes}}

1.  If you use `check_local_user` on another router to route to a local
    sport (again, this is what is in the default configuration), you
    also have to specify a current directory for the transport, because
    efault it makes the home directory current. This is easily done by
    ng

<!-- -->

    current_directory = /

to the transport or

    transport_current_directory = /

to the router. Or you can add `home_directory` to the transport, because
the current directory defaults to the home directory.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Routing for local delivery](FAQ/Routing_for_local_delivery) /
> Q0423

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
