FAQ\_ / [Routing for local delivery](FAQ/Routing_for_local_delivery) /
Q0425

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0425
=====

Question
--------

My users' mailboxes are distributed between several servers according to
the first letter of the user name. All the servers receive incoming mail
at random. I would like to have the same configuration file for all the
servers, which does local delivery for the mailboxes it holds, and sends
other addresses to the correct other server. Is this possible?

Answer
------

It is easiest if you arrange for all the users to have password entries
on all the servers. This means that non-existent users can be detected
at the first server they reach. Set up a file containing a mapping from
the first letter of the user names to the servers where their mailboxes
are held. For example:

    a: server1
    b: server1
    c: server2
    ...

Before the normal **localuser** router, place the following router:

    mailbox_host:
      driver = manualroute
      check_local_user
      transport = remote_smtp
      route_list = * ${lookup{${substr_0_1:$local_part}}lsearch{/etc/mapfile}}
      self = pass

This router checks for a local account, then looks up the host from the
first character of the local part. If the host is not the local host,
the address is routed to the **remote\_smtp** transport, and sent to the
correct host. If the host is the local host, the `self` option causes
the router to pass the address to the next router, which does a local
delivery. The router is skipped for local parts that are not the names
of local users, and so these addresses fail.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Routing for local delivery](FAQ/Routing_for_local_delivery) /
> Q0425

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
