FAQ\_ / [Routing for local delivery](FAQ/Routing_for_local_delivery) /
Q0434

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0434
=====

Question
--------

How can I redirect all local parts that are not in my system aliases to
a single address? I tried using an asterisk in the system alias file
with an `lsearch*` lookup, but that sent all messages to the default
address.

Answer
------

If your alias file generates addresses in the local domain, they are
also processed as a potential aliases. For example, suppose this is your
alias file:

    caesar:   jc
    anthony:  ma
    *:        brutus

The local part *caesar* is aliased to *jc*, but that address is then
reprocessed by the routers. As the address is in the local domain, the
alias file is again consulted, and this time the default matches. In
fact after the second aliasing, *brutus* is also processed again from
the start, and is aliased to itself. However, this happens only once,
because the next time, Exim notices that the aliasing router has already
processed *brutus*, so the router is skipped in order to avoid looping.
There are several ways of solving this problem; which one you use
depends on your aliasing data.

1.  If the result of aliasing is always a local user name, that is,
    aliasing never generates another alias, you can use the
    `redirect_router` option on the router to specify that processing
    the generated addresses must start at the next router. For example:

<!-- -->

    redirect_router = userforward

assuming that the next router is called **userforward**. This ensures
that there is at most one pass through the aliasing router.

1.  If you cannot rely on aliases generating non-aliases, it is often
    easier not to use a default alias, but instead to place a router
    such as the one below after all the other local routers (for the
    relevant domains):

<!-- -->

    catch_unknown:
      driver = redirect
      domains = ...
      data = brutus@$domain

Note that the default aliasing technique works more successfully for
virtual domains (see \`../Q0401\`\_) because the generated address for
the default is not usually in the same virtual domain as the incoming
address.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Routing for local delivery](FAQ/Routing_for_local_delivery) /
> Q0434

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
