FAQ\_ / [Dial-up and ISDN](FAQ/Dialup_and_ISDN) / Q1407

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q1407
=====

Question
--------

RFC 1985 specifies that the SMTP command `ETRN host.domain` causes all
mail queued for that host, no matter what domain it's for, to be
delivered. Why doesn't Exim support this?

Answer
------

Exim does not keep queues of mail for specific destinations. It just
keeps one pool of undelivered messages. What is more, once you start a
delivery of a message, it tries to deliver to all the addresses in the
message, not just the one you may be interested in. (Of course, this
doesn't usually do any harm.) The only way it could be done within Exim
would be, for every message on the queue, to go through the motions of
routing each undelivered address and see if that resulted in a delivery
to the host of interest. This could be extremely expensive (e.g. 1,000
messages on the queue, only 1 for the given host). The bottom line is
that Exim just wasn't designed for this kind of operation, that is,
holding messages for intermittently connected hosts. The queueing
arrangements are designed for handling delivery problems that are not
expected to be common. A better way to do this is to implement the
required queues separately. After all, keeping such mail on an active
queue (where Exim will keep trying to deliver) is silly. If there is a
lot of mail for these hosts, it also masks genuine delivery problems
when you inspect the queue. Large ISPs who provide this kind of
functionality do not usually leave waiting mail on the MTA's queue.
Instead, they get it delivered into per-host directories, one message
per file, in one of the special formats (BSMTP, maildir, or mailstore)
and when an ETRN arrives, it kicks off some completely different program
that establishes an SMTP connection to the host and shovels the waiting
mail down it. That seems to me to be a much neater way of doing this. It
means you can easily add additional functionality such as archiving or
throwing away uncollected mail. One program that has this functionality
is *ssmtp*, which can be found in
[ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/system/mail/mta/](ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/system/mail/mta/).
Alternatively, sample configuration C037 demonstrates an elegant way of
using Exim itself to deliver the saved messages when the client issues
an ETRN.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Dial-up and ISDN](FAQ/Dialup_and_ISDN) / Q1407

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
