Q9606
=====

Question
--------

I'm having trouble configuring Exim 4 on a Debian system. How does
*/etc/exim4/conf.d* work?

Answer
------

The Debian Exim 4 packages use a quite uncommon, but elegant, method of configuration where the  real > Exim configuration file is assembled from a tree of snippets by a
> script invoked just before the daemon is started (see \`../Q9608\`\_).
> This fits very well into the Debian system of configuration file
> management and is a great ease for the automatic configuration with
> Debconf. However, it is very different from the normal way Exim 4 is
> configured. Non-Debian users on the Exim mailing list will probably
> have difficulty in trying to answer specific questions about it. You
> may have to find a Debian expert.

One place that you may potentially find information is the extensive
documentation which comes with the Debian Exim 4 packages. Possible
starting points are
-   the README file on your system,
    /usr/share/doc/exim4-base/README.Debian.gz
-   the Wiki page of the Debian Exim 4 packages,
    [http://wiki.debian.net/?PkgExim4](http://wiki.debian.net/?PkgExim4)

An additional place that you may potentially find interesting is the
Debian mailing list on Alioth. Note that although this is an Exim4 users
list you will probably be speaking with developers and package
maintainers who are, in my experience, disinclined to help those who
have not already tried to help themselves or clearly show that they have
not bothered to read the documentation.

List information is available on the Debian Exim 4 wiki page.

* * * * *
