FAQ\_ / [Linux](FAQ/Linux) / Q9608

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q9608
=====

Question
--------

I'm running Exim 3 under Debian, and want to upgrade to Exim 4. How
difficult is it?

Answer
------

There is an article covering this issue on Debian Administration
[http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/98](http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/98)

A user who did this, using the Debian Exim 4 package, reported as
follows:

1.  The exim4 package installs easily, and the exim (3.38) package
    stalls at the same time.

2.  Exim runs from *inetd*. Exim4 runs from */etc/init.d*. Much nicer!

3.  The exim configuration file is found in */etc/exim/exim.conf*. The
    exim4 configuration file in */var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated*.
    It is, as the name suggests, autogenerated.

4.  A new directory is created called */etc/exim4*. This contains the
    files to generate the above config. You make changes here.

5.  Once you have made changes to the files in */etc/exim4* you run
    *update-exim4.conf* which generates a replacement.

[Debian maintainer: You also need to tell the Exim daemon to reread the
changed configuration. You can do this using SIGHUP by hand.
Alternatively, instead of running *update-exim4.conf* you can use

    invoke-rc.d exim4 reload

which does the rebuild and also tells Exim to reread the changed
configuration.]

1.  In my experience, you need to carefully check the generated config
    files. For example, it did not generate a system filter file
    reference in the nfig.autogenerated.

2.  All of this may be in the docs. I've read some of them, obviously,
    didn't come across an actual upgrade guide.

[The Debian maintainer says:
*/usr/share/doc/exim4-base/README.Debian.gz* and *update-exim4.conf(8)*
should answer most of the questions.]

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Linux](FAQ/Linux) / Q9608

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
