Q0607
=====

Question
--------

When I activate .. raw:: html
:   &\#147;

return receipt.. raw:: html
:   &\#148;

> for example in Netscape Mailbox sending options, then I get an error
> message from Exim... something like *not supported*. Can I activate
> delivery confirmations?

Answer
------

Exim does not support any kind of delivery notification.

1.  You can configure it to recognize headers such as urn-receipt-to:if
    you wish.

2.  Some people want MSN (message status notification). Such services
    implemented in MUAs, and don't impact on the MTA at all.

3.  I investigated the RFCs which describe the DSN (delivery status fication) system. However, I was unable to specify any sensible way ctually doing anything with the data. There were comments on the ing list at the time; many people, including me, conclude that DSN n practice unworkable. The killer problem is with forwarding and sing. Do you propagate the DSN data with the generated addresses? ou send back a .. raw:: html
    :   &\#147;

    reached end of the DSN world.. raw:: html
    :   &\#148;

    or .. raw:: html
    :   &\#147;

    expanded.. raw:: html
    :   &\#148;

    > message? ou do this differently for different kinds of
    > aliasing/forwarding? a user who has a *.forward* file with a
    > single address in, this t seem easy - just propagate the data. But
    > what if there are several ardings? If you propagate the DSN data,
    > the sender may get back ral DSN messages - and should the sender
    > really know about the il of the receiver's forwarding
    > arrangements? There isn't really way to distinguish between a
    > *.forward* file that is forwarding one that is a mini mailing
    > list. And so on, and so on. There are so questions that don't have
    > obvious answers.

* * * * *
