FAQ\_ / [Delivery](FAQ/Delivery) / Q0608

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0608
=====

Question
--------

What does the message *retry time not reached [for any host]* on the log
mean? Why won't Exim try to deliver the message?

Answer
------

That is not an error. It means exactly what it says. A previous attempt
to deliver to that address failed with a temporary error, and Exim
computed the earliest time at which to try again. This can apply to
local as well as to remote deliveries. For remote deliveries, each host
(if there are several) has its own retry time. If you are running on a
dial-up host, the rest of this answer probably does not apply to you. Go
and read \`FAQ/Dialup\_and\_ISDN/Q1404\`\_ instead. If your host is
permanently online, read on...

Some MTAs have a retrying schedule for each message. Exim does not work
like this. Retry timing is normally host-based for remote deliveries and
address-based for local deliveries. (There are some exceptions for
certain kinds of remote failure - see *Errors in outgoing SMTP* in the
manual.) If a new message arrives for a failing address and the retry
time has not yet arrived, Exim will log *retry time not reached* and
leave the message on the queue, without attempting delivery. Similarly,
if a queue runner notices the message before the time to retry has
arrived, it writes the same log entry. When the retry time has past,
Exim attempts delivery at the next queue run. If you want to know when
that will be, run the exinext utility on the address, for example:

    exinext user@some.domain

You can suppress these messages on the log by including `-retry_defer`
in the setting of `log_selector`. You can force a delivery attempt on a
specific message (overriding the retry time) by means of the -M option:

    exim -M 10hCET-0000Bf-00

If you want to do this for the entire queue, use the **-qf** option.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Delivery](FAQ/Delivery) / Q0608

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
