FAQ\_ / [Delivery](FAQ/Delivery) / Q0601

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0601
=====

Question
--------

What does the error *Neither the xxx router nor the yyy transport set a
uid for local delivery of...* mean?

Answer
------

Whenever Exim does a local delivery, it runs a process under a specific
user and group id (uid and gid). For deliveries into mailboxes, and to
pipes and files set up by forwarding, it normally picks up the uid/gid
of the receiving user. However, if an address is directed to a pipe or a
file by some other means, such an entry in the system alias file of the
form

    majordomo: |/local/mail/majordomo ...

then Exim has to be told what uid/gid to use for the delivery. This can
be done either on the routerr that handles the address, or on the
transport that actually does the delivery. If a pipe is going to run a
setuid program, then it doesn't matter what uid Exim starts it out with,
and so the most straightforward thing is to put

    user = exim

on either the router or the transport. A setting on the transport
overrides a setting on the router, so if the same transport is being
used with several routers, you should set the user on it only if you
want the same uid to be used in all cases. In the default configuration,
the transports used for file and pipe deliveries are the ones called
`address_file` and `address_pipe`. You can specify different transports
by setting, for example,

    pipe_transport = special_pipe_transport

on the **system\_aliases** router. Then you can set up
**special\_pipe\_transport**

    special_pipe_transport:
      driver = pipe
      user = ????

which will be used only for pipe deliveries from that one router. What
you put for the ???? is up to you, and depends on the particular
circumstances.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Delivery](FAQ/Delivery) / Q0601

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
