Q0612
=====

Question
--------

Why does the **pipe** transport add a line starting with `>From` to
messages?

Answer
------

Actually, it adds a line starting with `From` followed by a space. This
is commonly referred to as the `From_` line, to emphasize the fact that
`From` is followed by a space and not a colon. This is a pseudo-header
line that contains the envelope sender address and the time of delivery.
It originated as a separator line in Berkeley format mailboxes, but is
also used in other contexts. (And yes, it is often confused with the
*From:* header line, and this causes a lot of grief. The use of `From_`
was one of the really bad email design decisions.) Exim's **pipe**
transport adds this pseudo-header line by default because
*/usr/ucb/vacation* needs it, and that is one of the the most common
uses of piping. The *procmail* local delivery agent also makes use of
the `From_` line. If you do not want it, change the setting of
`message_prefix` on the **pipe** transport. For example, to remove the
line altogether, use

    message_prefix =

If you are not piping to */usr/ucb/vacation* or *procmail*, it is likely
that you do not need a `From_` line, and indeed it may cause problems if
it is present. One user reported that this line gave trouble when a pipe
was used to send messages to Courier's *deliverquota* program. The line
was retained with the message, and caused problems for MS Exchange 2000
when retrieving messages with its built-in POP collector. Specifically,
it caused Exchange to not be able to recognise message attachments.

* * * * *
