FAQ\_ / [Modifying message bodies](FAQ/Modifying_message_bodies) / Q1601

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q1601
=====

Question
--------

How can I add a disclaimer or an advertisement to a message?

Answer
------

There are a number of technical and potential legal problems that arise
in connection with message modification. Some of them are listed below.
Some comment on the legal position of email disclaimers in English law
can be found at
[http://www.weblaw.co.uk/artemail.htm](http://www.weblaw.co.uk/artemail.htm).
See also
[http://www.goldmark.org/jeff/stupid-disclaimers/](http://www.goldmark.org/jeff/stupid-disclaimers/).

There is some discussion about the problems of actually adding
disclaimers in
[http://www.goldmark.org/jeff/stupid-disclaimers/apply.html](http://www.goldmark.org/jeff/stupid-disclaimers/apply.html).
In many cases, email disclaimers will make your company look ridiculous,
at the very least. At worst, they may interfere with the normal
processing of mail.

If, despite these considerations, you still want to modify messages, you
can do so using Exim, but not directly in Exim itself. It is not the job
of an MTA to modify messages, something that requires understanding of
their content and format.

Exim provides a hook called a .. raw:: html
:   &\#147;

transport filter.. raw:: html
:   &\#148;

> that lets you pass any outgoing message through a program or script of
> your choice. It is the job of this script to make any changes to the
> message that you require. By this means, you have full control over
> what changes are made, and Exim does not need to know anything about
> message bodies. However, using a transport filter requires additional
> resources, and may slow down mail delivery.

You can use Exim's routers to arrange for those messages that you want
to modify to be delivered via a transport filter. For example, suppose
you want to do this for messages from addresses in your domain that are
being delivered to a remote host. First you need to set up a special
**smtp** transport that uses a filter, like this:

    remote_smtp_filter:
      driver = smtp
      transport_filter = /your/filter/command

Then you need to modify the **dnslookup** router to use this transport
when the conditions are right:

    dnslookup:
      driver = dnslookup
      domains = ! +local_domains
      transport = ${if eq {$sender_address_domain}{your.domain}\
                   {remote_smtp_filter}{remote_smtp}}
      ignore_target_hosts = 127.0.0.0/8
      no_more

This is the standard **dnslookup** router, but with a modified setting
of the `transport` option. When the sender address is in your domain, it
routes to the special transport instead of the standard one.

The entire message is passed to your filter command on its standard
input. It must write the modified version to the standard output, taking
care not to break the RFC 2822 syntax. The command is run as the Exim
user.

There are a number of potential problems in doing this kind of
modification in an MTA. Many people believe that to attempt is it wrong,
because:

1.  It breaks digital signatures, which are becoming legally binding in
    some countries. It may well also break encryption.

2.  It is likely to break MIME encoding, that is, it is likely to wreck
    attachments, unless great care is taken. And what about the case of
    a message containing only binary MIME parts?

3.  It is illegal under German and Dutch law to change the body of a mail message in transit. It might potentially be illegal in the UK under European law. This consideration applies to ISPs and other .. raw:: html
    :   &\#147;

    common carriers.. raw:: html
    :   &\#148;

    . It would presumably not apply in a corporate environment where
    modification was done only to messages originating from the
    employees, before they left the company's network. It might also not
    apply if the senders have explicitly given their consent (e.g.
    agreed to have advertisements added to their incoming mail).

4.  Since the delivered message body was produced by the MTA (not the
    originator, because it was modified), the MTA operator could
    potentially be sued for any content. This again applies to \`common
    carrier' MTAs. It's interesting that adding a disclaimer of
    liability could be making you liable for the message, but this case
    seems more likely to involve adding advertisements than disclaimers.
    After all, no postal service in the world opens all the mail it
    carries to add disclaimers.

5.  Some mail clients (old versions of MS outlook) crash if the message
    body of an incoming MIME message has been tampered with.

There are also potential problems that could arise if a scheme to add
disclaimers goes wrong for some messages:

1.  False negatives: \`Ah, this guy usually says he does not represent
    their views, but in this message he doesn't have the disclaimer'.

2.  False positives: \`This official announcement does not represent our
    views, oh no'.

An alternative approach to the disclaimer problem would be to insist
that all relevant messages have the disclaimer appended by the MUA. The
MTA should refuse to accept any that do not. Again, however, the MTA
must understand the format of messages in order to do this. Simply
checking for appropriate wording at the end of the body is not good
enough. It would probably be necessary to run a Perl script from within
an Exim system filter, or write a *local\_scan()* function in order to
adopt this approach.

Finally, it's a trivial matter to add customized headers of the sort:

    X-Disclaimer:  This is a standard disclaimer that says that the views
    X-Disclaimer:  contained within this message are somebody else's.

which is a much easier alternative to modifying message bodies.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Modifying message bodies](FAQ/Modifying_message_bodies) /
> Q1601

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
