FAQ\_ / [Policy controls](FAQ/Policy_controls) / Q0740

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

Q0740
=====

Question
--------

How can I change the MAIL FROM address that is used for callouts?

Answer
------

It depends on which type of callout you are using.

1.  For envelope sender verification callouts, you cannot make any
    change. My view is that an envelope sender verification is testing
    whether Exim could send a bounce to that address. Therefore, it must
    use `MAIL FROM:<>` because that is what it would do if it were
    sending a bounce message. If `MAIL FROM:<>` is rejected, it means
    Exim could not send a bounce. Therefore the callout fails.

2.  For verifying addresses in the *From:*, *Sender:*, or *Reply-to:*
    header lines (the `verify = header_sender` condition), it is
    possible to make a change, on the grounds that these addresses are
    not necessarily ones that must accept bounce messages. You can do
    this by adding a `mailfrom` option, like this:

<!-- -->

    require  verify = header_sender/callout=mailfrom=abcd@x.y.z

1.  It is also possible to make a change for the postmaster verification
    option, also on the grounds that a postmaster address need not
    accept bounces if it is never used as an envelope sender. Instead of
    just `postmaster`, `postmaster_mailfrom` is used, like this:

<!-- -->

    require  verify = sender/callout=postmaster_mailfrom=abcd@x.y.z

1.  For recipient verification, there are three possibilities. The
    default is to use `MAIL FROM:<>`. If the `use_postmaster` option is
    given, for example:

<!-- -->

    require  verify = recipient/callout=use_postmaster

then the address for MAIL FROM is made up from the local part
`postmaster` and the contents of *\$qualify\_domain*. Alternatively, if
the `use_sender` option is given, the sender address of the incoming
message is used. You should use this option only when you know that the
receiving host makes use of the sender address when verifying. The
reason is that the callout cache is much less effective in this case,
causing many more callouts to be performed. In all cases when you
configure Exim to use a non-empty address in MAIL FROM during callout
processing, you should think carefully about what might happen if this
causes the called host to make its own callout back to your host. Make
sure that callout loops cannot happen.

* * * * *

> \`[[Navigation(siblings)]]\`\_

* * * * *

> FAQ\_ / [Policy controls](FAQ/Policy_controls) / Q0740

* * * * *

> CategoryFrequentlyAskedQuestions\_
