Q0744
=====

Question
--------

I've got a queue full of "bounce" messages. How do I get rid of them?

Why it happens
--------------

The usual reason for ending up with a queue full of bounces is that
you're accepting incoming mail for non-existent users: for example, you
accept incoming mail purely on the basis of the domain name, without
checking the local part. Once Exim has accepted the message, it then
tries to deliver the message, and only then does it find that the
message is undeliverable. The message therefore bounces. If the bounce
message cannot immediately be delivered, it will stay in the queue.

Example
-------

An example of the problem: suppose the only router which handles your
local domains is something like

    maildir:
      domains = +local_domains
      check_local_user
      transport = user_maildir

and your `acl_smtp_rcpt` includes

    accept domains = +local_domains

> without also including "verify = recipient".

Incoming mail for `+local_domains` would then always be accepted
(because your `acl_smtp_rcpt` says so). But if, say, the address was
`nxjgkhmu@example.com` (where example.com is one of your
+local\_domains), and if "nxjgkhmu" isn't a real user on your system -
i.e. doesn't pass `check_local_user` - then mail for that address would
be undeliverable.

Solution
--------

Firstly, ensure that your routers reject unrouteable addresses. Use
`exim -bv` to test that "good" addresses, including external ones, are
routeable, and that "bad" addresses are unrouteable.

Then, ensure your `acl_smtp_rcpt` includes "verify = recipient". See
[What should I put in my acl\_smtp\_rcpt?](../Q0743) for details and
examples.

Other Solutions
---------------

To actually get rid of bounce messages already in the queue, try one of
these methods:
-   `exipick -f '^$' -i | xargs exim -Mrm`
    -   or, equivalently:
        `exipick '$sender_address eq ""' -i | xargs exim -Mrm`

* * * * *
